CSE 111 Proposal for a Student Chosen Program

    (This is a proposal. All proposals are written with our best
    knowledge at the beginning of a project. As we progress from the
    beginning to the end of a project, we gain more knowledge, and we
    change some of our proposed ideas. This is part of completing any
    project and is fine.  However, we still must write a proposal so
    that our teachers or supervisors know what we intend to do. Please
    answer each of the following questions to the best of your
    knowledge.)

1. What is the title of your program?

    Student Budget Tracker Program

2. What real-world problem will your program address or help to solve?

    Many students have difficulty managing their money and keeping track of their expenses.
    This program will help students record their income and expenses, calculate their total spending, and show their remaining balance.
    This helps students understand where their money is going and manage their budget better.

3. What will you learn from developing this program?

    I will learn:
    How to read and write CSV files
    How to organize data using lists and dictionaries
    How to create reusable functions
    How to perform calculations in Python
    How to write test functions using pytest

4. What Python modules will your program use?

    csv
    datetime
    pytest
    math

    (Some examples are: csv, datetime, functools, matplotlib, math,
    pandas, pytest, random, requests, and tkinter.)

5. List the names of functions you will need?

    read_transactions()
    calculate_total_income()
    calculate_total_expenses()
    calculate_balance()
    add_transaction()
    main()

    (Remember that the most reusable functions don't get user input and
    don't print results but instead have parameters and return a result.
    Functions that get user input and print results are important and do
    useful work but are not easily reusable.)

    (Remember also that it's hard to test functions that get user input
    and print results. It's easy to test functions that don't get user
    input and don't print results but instead have parameters and return
    a result. Therefore, you should write most of your program functions
    to have parameters and return a result.)

6. List the names of the test functions you will write.

    test_calculate_total_income()
    test_calculate_total_expenses()
    test_calculate_balance()
    test_read_transactions()